 Insert update delete in mvc using entity framework 



In this  we will discuss, selecting, inserting, updating and deleting data in mvc using entity framework. 



Step 1: Create a new asp.net mvc 4 web application.

Step 2: Right click on the "Models" folder and add "ADO.NET Entity Data Model". Set Name = EmployeeDataModel.edmx.  
 
right click add entity
Employee
add scaler property

right click add entity
Department
add scaler property


Give association

On the subsequent screen, select "Empty Model" option and click "Next".

On "Choose your data connection screen", click on "New Connection" button.

Specify the sql server name. In my case, I have sql server installed on my local machine. So I have set "Server Name=(local)". From "Select or enter a database name" dropdownlist, select the Database name and click "OK".
 

Click "Next".

Observe TT file on edmx gile rightclick "update model from database"

Build the solution.

Step 3: Right click on the "Controllers" folder and select Add - Controller. Set 
Name = EmployeeController
Template = MVC controller with read/write actions and views, using Entity Framework
Model class = Employee(MVCDemo.Models)
Data Context Class = EmployeeContext(MVCDemo.Models)
Views = Razor

Finally click "Add".

At this point you should have the following files automatically added.
1. EmployeeController.cs file in "Controllers" folder
2. Index, Create, Edit, Detail and Delete views in "Employee" folder.

Observe
@section Scripts {
    @Scripts.Render("~/bundles/jqueryval")
}

At this point, if you run the application by pressing CTRL + F5, you will get an error stating - The resource cannot be found. This is because, by default, the application goes to "HOME" controller and "Index" action.

To fix this, 
1. Open "RouteConfig.cs" file from "App_Start" folder
2. Set Controller = "Employee"

Run the application again. Notice that, all the employees are listed on the index view. We can also create a new employee, edit an employee, view their full details and delete an employee as well. However, there are few issues, with each of the views, . 

 
 


